# 22.11.2024

## Main goal

- finish cookie clicker
- introduce Godot

## Ideas

- make them give me their emails so I can send them links

- show a simple demo project - Pong
- show that there exists web tutorial [link](https://gdquest.github.io/learn-gdscript/)
- show godot quest [link](https://www.gdquest.com/)
- show godot docs [link](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/getting_started/introduction/index.html)

## 0. Exchange mails so I can send them links

- emails:
  - kris:
  - vlada:

## 1. Some riddle in Python?

## 2. Explain data can be stored in table using lists

- ask, how could we use lists in python to represent items when we know
- each item has: name, cost, power
- we have list for each attribute (name, cost, power)
- each item has a unique id -> its index in all the lists

- can we use the same idea to represent how many items we own of each type?

- after explaining start working on the exercises

## 3. Finish cookie clicker: shop with multiple items

- separation of program
  - display game functions
  - process game step functions
    - player choice
    - some variables change

- create a lists for the shop items
  - what do we have to know about the items?
    - item name
    - item cost
    - item power

- how to represent player inventory?
  - amount of things owned

- EVERYTHING CONCERNING ITEMS IS DEPENDENT ON POSITION IN THE LIST
  - (we are making a table) - draw on the board how that looks

- how to print shop choices
  - for i in range loop -> we do this in display

- how to implement buying stuff in shop -> in processing shop function
  - check if player entered a number -> my_str.isdigit()
  - OPTIONAL: check if the number is in range (otherwise we get errors)
  - check the price of the item chosen and out cookies amount
    - if yes -> buy item 
      - add click power
      - add to inventory (how does this work?)
      - reduce money
    - if no -> just print something

- printing inventory
  - just for loop over possible stuff we can buy
  - print only the stuff that we have at least one times

- useful tip: my_str.strip()

## 3. Godot intro

### 3.0 Godot Tours: 101 - The Godot Editor
- starting a game
- viewport
  - shows what **scene** is currently open
- scene
  - ends with .tscn
  - can be a character or the whole game
- context switcher
  - 2D view
  - script editor
- scene dock 
  - what nodes are in current scene?
  - players
  - enemies
- file system dock
  - what data does the game have?
    - pictures
    - sounds
    - scene files
- inspector dock
  - what can I do with the selected node?
- bottom panels
  - contextual editors?
- scene instance 
  - node that is an instance of a scene (one concrete clone of it)
  - node that uses a scene as its template
  - **open in editor** scene button
- attached script
  - moves us to scripting context
  - TODO: make themselves invincible\
- signals
  - **signal emission** button
  - node dock
    - lists all signals
    - **connected signal** button

### 3.1 Learn GDScript from zero

- 