# 11.4.2025

## Main goals

- do something simple to raise motivation
  - Fibonacci sequence

## 0. Fibonacci sequence exercise

- we have the following setting
  - invincible rabbits
  - in year 0, we have 0 rabbit pairs
  - in year 1, we buy young 1 rabbit pair
  - each next year happens the following:
    - each young rabbit pair grows to an old rabbit pair
    - each old rabbit pair produces another old rabbit pair

- compare different algorithms (introduce timing module)
  - recursive
  - generating an array
  - using two integers
  - explicit formula

- BONUS: use matplotlib to plot different functions compared to fibonacci sequence
  - exponential series
  - arithmetic sequence

## 1. Maybe some data anaylisis example

### HTML Basics

- would be cool to make the page accesible from anywhere (so we can show our friends that we have our own website, how cool!)
  - [link](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site)

- what does html stand for? did they hear about it already?
  - show page inspector? have they seen that sometimes before?

- what is the simplest html file possible?
  - try make our own html page

### Web scraping basics

- first we need to be able to somehow get data from a given url (web address)

- show basics of html for data scraping?
  - quickly learn with beautiful soap

- how does an html document look?
  - tags
    - tags have names based on meanings? 
      - can he guess what some tags mean by inspecting a page?

- scrape what were the top selling games weekly from some tables
  - look here for some data that we find interesting:
    - [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_lists_of_lists)
  - list of capital cities of countries
    - [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_national_capitals)
    - we can use it to write a self testing application