# 14.3.2025

## Goal

- finish poker exercise
- learn more about working with classes in python

## 0. Using standard type checking

- show what it does (how it helps)

- example: (what is wrong with the code below?)
```py
a = "a"
b = 1
a > b
```

- try the code above with different settings in `settings.json` using `"python.analysis.typeCheckingMode": "choice",` where choice can be:
  - off
  - basic
  - standard
  - strict

- TASK: Why would we want more strict type checking? We get more errors, and that sounds worse doesn't it?

## 1. Defining behavior of operators of our class

- `==` : `__eq__(self,other)` (EQual)
- `<` : `__lt__(self,other)` (Lower Than)
- `<=` : `__le__(self,other)` (Lower or Equal)
- `>` : `__gt__(self,other)` (Greater Than)
- `>=` : `__ge__(self,other)` (Greater or Equal)

- this is useful because now python uses the `__lt__()` method for sorting
  - TASK: How to test that I am telling them the truth? Is it not using some other of the methods above?

## 2. (OPTIONAL) Create a deck of cards and shuffle it, then sort it

## 3. Creating the player class

- TASK: what information should we store in a player?

## 4. Writing functions for evaluating useful properties of combinations

- TASK: what properties do some combinations have in common? can we express some combination as composition of other combinations?
  - do I need to program functions: 2 of kind, 3 of kind, 4 of kind?

- example
  - full house -> three of a kind, two of a kind

- TASK: how to check n of a kind?
  - do they have own ideas?
  - my idea: use the power of being able to sort the cards!
  - other option: count occurences into a list and then count if something occured n times (possibly I can have one function that returns the occurences)

## 5. Testing our evaluation functions

- idea: it would be good to test if our basic evaluation functions are programmed correctly

- why is testing important?

- TASK: what is the best way to test them? do we have to create our own test cases (we could generate randomly using our deck)?

- tricks with `Formatted string literals` (also called f-strings for short)
  - we can specify how much space should be reserved for the expression part of the f-string
    - {expression:n} - n is the amount of spaces reserved
  - also can specify to convert the value of expression before passing to f-string
    - {expression!s}

## 6. Using enums to define values of the card combinations in sorted order

- importing from enum
  - Enum
  - auto

- Why are enums useful?
  - force us to have the code that is logically connected to be at one place
  - we can use automatic code completion to quickly get the values (don't have to remember them)
- Why is auto useful?
  - we can just pick the order and the values are created automatically

