# Agenda 6.6.2025

## Main goal

- fix player guessing games

- show how passing functions work

- how dictionaries work

- storing data using JSON format

## 1. Fix scraping game (maintainability)

- can he find a mistake in the second version of his player guessing game?

- why did the mistake happen?
  - can he think of other scenarios where a similar mistake might happen?
    - what if he wants to change the way that the game talks to the player?
    - or add a limit to the number of rounds?
    - change time of waiting

- does he have any idea how to avoid this problem?
  - identify what code repeats
  - what code is different?
    - can we pass that code into the function?

- show example of passing function to another function
  - [link](../25_06_06/0Examples/0passing_functions.py)
  - [link](../25_06_06/0Examples/1passing_functions.py)
  - [link](../25_06_06/0Examples/2passing_functions.py)

## 2. Fix scraping game (separation of concerns)

- there are two main parts of the program that have very different tasks
- can he identify them?

- getting data vs using the data
  - good habit to make parts that have different concerns separated from each other

- bonus:
  - create variable for amount of time towait 

## 3. Fix player guesser game (make code shorter inside player)

- see following [example](../25_06_06/0Examples/0a_shorter_if.py)

## 4. Fix player guesser game (make code shorter inside )

- smarter if "yes"/"no"
  - store True or False in variable and then we need just this if and the rest is same for both (just use the variable)

## 5. Dicts in python

- what is dictionary in Czech?

- it is really kind of like a real dictionary!

- [example_const](../25_06_06/0Examples/6dict_example_const.py)
- [example_mutable](../25_06_06/0Examples/7dict_example_mutable.py)

## 6. Loading and storing players in json format

- good to have the players stored in case the website changes in the future
- recommended format -> json
  - why: because it is well known and easy to use

- storing
  - use the `dump()` function on an opened file
    - bonus: indent = 2 for pretty print
  - we need to pass a list of dicts!!!
    - convert Player -> dict
  - [example](../25_06_06/0Examples/8store_player_list.py)

- [example-json-data](../25_06_06/players.json)

- loading
  - use the `load()` function on an opened file
  - we will get dicts
    - convert dict -> Player
  - [example](../25_06_06/0Examples/9load_players_json.py)